{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11540\viewh18000\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 OS (OS is a software which manages the hardware)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
It is a interface b/w the user and the computer. Now computer is a hardware.\
\
Computer hardware is its main Memory, I/O devices and CPU. \
\
So in order to communicate with Memory, I/O, or CPU, you will need an OS.\
\
e.g. OS, a software, will let you communicate with the computer screen. You typing on the screen using your keyboard is facilitated by OS.\
\
\
There are two types of softwares:-\
1. System softwares\
\
These softwares are used to manage the hardware. Your OS and drivers are system softwares.\
\
Every hardware will use some sort of software to deliver some output. In order for you to use these hardware devices, you may need drivers (softwares)\
\
2. Application software\
\
These are for specific task. e.g. Text Editor, Media players, Word and Excel.\
\
____________________\
\
Importance of OS\
\
- Users who want to use application softwares (Text Editor or Excel) will need OS to interact with the Hardware (CPU, I/O and Memory)\
\
So you need OS to run the applications.\
\
E.g.\
\
You prepare the source code that you built using R language (.R extension file)\
\
You then save the file in your hard disk (secondary memory)\
\
Then you will do compilation process (converting R code to machine language); this will also be saved in Hard disk\
\
If your source code gets successfully compiled, you will wish to RUN it \
\
For this you need to interact with the CPU, a computer hardware.\
\
_____\
What is happening when you are running your compiled code?\
______\
\

\f0\b All processes are executed by the Processor (CPU) only.\
 \
And, the CPU will only access the main memory. It cannot access files from the hard-disk.xx
\f1\b0 \
\
So compilation process will need to store the file in to the main memory.\
\
The code is passed to the processor by the OS, as this will allow the processor to execute the code.\
\
This is necessary as CPU doesn't access the files directly from the hard-disk . It communicate only with the main memory.\
\
Since CPU accesses everything from the main memory, files stored in Hard-disk needs to be transferred to the main memory first in order for them to be accessible to the CPU.\
\
So Operating system loads the files into the main memory for your CPU to execute them.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 _______ Another example,\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Suppose you have downloaded music files in your USB. For your computer to run those files, OS will load your files into the main memory for your CPU to play them using the application stored on your computer.\
\
\
OS role is to load files on to the main memory. OS allows you to communicate with the system hardware.}