{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12700\viewh17440\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 2. Services provided by the Operating system
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Two types of services - user service  and system service\
\
1. User service \
\
a. Program execution- A program should be loaded to the main memory for execution. This is done by OS.\
\
So all processors (CPU) will need OS to execute something.\
\
b. User Interface:\
\
In order to communicate with computer, you must give it some instructions (Inputs). This is facilitated by OS.\
\
User interface is of two types-\
- command line interface (CLI) (such as DOS)\
\
Everything is based on text based commands.\
\
- Graphic user interface (GUI) - (Windows, Linux and Mac)\
\
Visibility will be more. This makes working with the hardware (computer) way more easier than CLI.\
\
You will need widgets\
\
c. I/O operations\
\
You will need input devices to give input (instructions) to your computer. And an output device to return an output based on the given input.\
\
**For every I/O device, there is a controller. A device controller will communicate with the CPU to give an output.** \
\
These device controllers are maintained by the OS.\
\
| Input device | Device Controller |\
|------|------|\
| 1. Keyboard | - Keyboard controller |\
| 2.Memory | - Memory controller |\
| 3. Displaying the output on the monitor | Video controller |\
\
d. Communication\
\
IPC (inter process communication)\
\
IPC can be between processors on the same computer, or between separate computers.\
\
CPU may have multiple processors. If one processor wants to communicate with the another processor, then they will be done with the help of OS.\
\
Also, if you are communicating with the CPU of a separate computer, then this will be done using OS.\
\
e. File system and manipulations\
\
File system and manipulation is the service provided by the OS.\
\
File systems allows you to \
- create the files\
- delete the files\
- search the files\
- retrieve the files\
- store/save the file \
\
F. Error detection\
\
Errors may occur when -\
- running a program\
- problems in the hardwares (memory, I/O, CPU)\
\
All the errors are reported to the users by the OS. \
\
OS can also debug the errors. If it cannot, it inform the users so that they can  fix the underlying issue.\
\
___________________\
\
\
2. System services\
\
a. Resource allocation. \
\
How to divide the resources among tasks (process1, process2, process3, etc)\
\
This is done so that each one of them can run parallel, or without any issue.\
\
OS will design  priorities to task. It could be first come first basis.\
\
By allocating resources, OS can streamline the work flow.\
\
b. Accounting (management of multiple accounts) \
\
One computer can have multiple users working on it during the different time of the day.\
\
And each user can run different operation. \
\
Accounting allows you to keep a log, a record of what each user was doing. This accounts are managed by system administrator.\
\
C. Security and protection (Unauthorized access to data and files)\
\
Since, One computer can have multiple users working on it during the different time of the day. \
\
You must prevent one user from accessing data of another user.\
\
**This is done using permission settings.** \
\
This will prevent certain users from accessing certain files. \
\
\
\
\
}